What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?
It creates a workspace for files common to your project.
It allows you to track versions of all the files in your project in one place
It allows you to annotate git comments to track the changes in your commits
-----------------------
How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?
Changes to the working directory and repository are permanent changes. The staging area allows you an interim step and location for moving files before actually commmiting them to the repository or working directory
You get a chance to review if your moves are going to make sense before you actually finalize them
-----------------------
How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?
By using the git status; git add; git status; git commit; git log; git status sequence on each change you can isolate each change and step it through from beginning to end before starting on the next logical change
-----------------------
What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?
When you want to try something to see if it will work while keeping your original master copy clean.
When you make changes to the master before finishing with your experimental branch
Branching will allow you to continue developing while also letting you experiment knowing you can keep track of the history of changes for later merging.
-----------------------
How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
They help me understand the tree sturcture of the commits.
They help me know Which branches are reachable from what commits.
It helps explain the detatched head messages received when checking out a branch.
It helps visualize what will happen if you execute certain commands when a new branch is created.
-----------------------
What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?
You consolidate the two branches into one.
Generally by merging the 'changed' branch into the 'master' branch.
This removes the branch label of the 'change' branch and keeps all the commits in the 'master' branch.
The commits are merged by time-stamp.
Representing it in the digagram shows still tracks each of the commits just without the branch name you can view when and perhaps by whom certain commits were created.
------------------------
What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?
If you have lots of code automatic merging gives you a good headstart on seeing where conflicts are possibly occuring
If more than one person is making changes it highlights those changes for you.
It shows the sections of code that were changed and by what commit and separates them with headers.
However, you cannot tell from the automatic merge whether to keep or discard the conflicts it identifies
You will need to try and understand the changes the other person made before you contact them to resolve the conflicts and this is time consuming
Not all of the changes will be highlighted by the automatic merge if they don't create a conflict.
